[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Next,
I wanna talk about canvas.
I'm gonna pick on canvas a little
bit from the perspective of facades
because there's a lot of
problems that canvas has.
But I wanna just show you real
quick the facade that I created for
it to try to address some things.
So we create a canvas,
we give it a width and a height.
The first, most annoying thing that I've
ever dealt with in dealing with canvas,
the first annoying thing,
is that canvas actually has two different
coordinate systems that you
have to concern yourself with.
There's the addressable
space coordinate system,
that is, the physical number of
pixels that your canvas can have.
And there's the physical display space,
that is, the CSS rendered with the height
that it shows up in your page.
Theoretically, it seems like almost
all the time you would want those two
to match.
There are very few cases that I can think
of where I would want an addressable
coordinate system different from
my visible coordinate system.
Maybe zooming and stuff, but very rare.
But canvas doesn't do anything
to help you with that.
And so I built into this
facade the ability to say,
like you see there on line four,
[COUGH] match the dimensions.
So it will automatically render the CSS
to the same dimensions as the physically
addressable pixel space.
Another thing that's really annoying
about canvas is the fact that you
have no chain ability.
So this API uses chain ability,
as you can see.
I can call set styles and
start path and define segments.
So I have to keep repeating my
canvas over and over again.
I took advantage of object literals to
kind of collect various, different styles
together, so the stroke styles of width
and color are kind of collected together,
and you don't have to repeat
yourself quite as much.
Paths starting, there's a quirk in
canvas that some of you may have seen,
I've seen this from time to time.
And somebody sends out a demo that
everybody gets all excited about on
Twitter, and everybody's like go look at
this really cool geometric pattern that
I drew in canvas.
And they're using some
mathematical function to draw
some really cool curly thing.
And I've noticed, from time to time,
that you pop that open in Chrome and
you pop it open in Firefox, and
it's not quite the same thing.
You'll see mostly the same design,
but in Firefox or in Chrome or
whatever, you'll see a line just
kind of bizarrely going off.
I don't know if anybody's
ever seen that before.
The reason for that is there's a quirk
with canvas that if you don't give it
an initial starting point, a registration
point for a path, it assumes zero, zero.
Well, that's not always true because
some browsers assume zero, zero, and
some just start with the first
point that you give it.
So that's the reason
why you see that quirk
difference because somebody didn't know
that and they didn't properly process.
Facades are a clear way to fix that.
So we can assume a zero, zero always and
correct those kinds of inconsistencies.
The last thing I'll pick on with canvas,
which is something again that I tried to
address with this facade, [COUGH] have
any of you ever done work with canvas?
Anybody ever done any
drawings with the canvas?
So a few of you are raising your hands.
If you've ever dealt with canvas,
those of you that are online or
listening, if you've
ever dealt with canvas,
there's an interesting feature
that allows you to rotate.
There's both rotating and
scaling and skewing, but
I'll talk about rotate specifically.
Because when I see rotate,
I think I'm rotating my drawing.
And when I go read any number of books
out there that talk about canvas, or
dozens and dozens of different respective
the blog posts that talk about canvas,
they all suggest to you that when you
call rotate, it will rotate your drawing.
And they suggest to you if you call
rotate and you pass in positive 45,
that it will rotate your
drawing 45 degrees clockwise.
I think I'm doing that backwards or
whatever, but you get the point.
Pass in a positive 45, you get clockwise,
a negative 45 you get counterclockwise,
or whatever they say.
And so, you go and look at this really
cool tutorial and you're like awesome.
So then you go to some canvas and
you say here's my picture of my kitten
that I want to rotate it 45 degrees.
And so I put my kitten on the canvas and
I call rotate 45, and
my kitten went the other direction
from what I was expecting.
And you go back and
you read the blog post or
the book and you're like it says positive
should go this way, but negative.
F it, and so you just put
a negative sign in front of it.
And then all of a sudden it
goes in the right direction and
you think, I don't know why, but
I'll just go on about my road.
And nobody ever seems to stop and
ask themselves, why is it that it's always
rotating in the wrong, damn direction?
The reason is there's a conceptual problem
with the way these things are written,
with the way the API's designed and
with the way things are documented.
Because you're not actually
rotating the drawing,
you're rotating the coordinate system.
And when you rotate a coordinate system,
you're gonna get the opposite
effect of rotating the drawing.
But nobody seems to take the time to think
about those things and design API so that
the way you use an API matches the way the
conceptuals work with the functionality.
That's something I think we can fix,
so I've tried to address
that with this facade.
So facades can fix little,
tiny problems, but they're mostly
concerned with just insulating us from
weird cross browser quirks and
issues with the way APIs are designed.